# Can 'The Merge' Save Crypto?

Summary of this [New York Time Article](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/15/technology/merge-ethereum-crypto.html)


The article tackles what has been known in the Ether community as the almighty "Merge". "The Merge" is the change from the consensus algorithm of proof-of-work, to the newly adopted one proof-of-stake. The main difference is that to confirm a transaction, rather than solving a complex problem, the minors would leave some ether in a pool as a stake. This would massively decrease the computational power to verify transactions, which decrease the carbon output of the network and solve some scalability issues. While being excited about this change, the author, however, seems skeptical that this would bring about the revival of crypto. He claims that the carbon output wasn't what pushed away people from the decentralized currencies, but the fluctuation of the prices and the overall scams that plagued the industry in general.

## Rizwan - Comment
I find it fascinating that most cryptocurrencies that use the current algoirthm  of "proof-of-work" have a carbon footprint that can't be simply overlooked. Much of the time when we speak of software development in the cryptocurrency world, the environmental toll is seldom mentioned. But given that Ethereum has changed to a "proof-of-stake" algorithm, the immediate impact is that it will "consume 99.95 percent less energy than the old" system. The author says, this is like "the entire nation of Portugal going off the grid." Surely, we need more solutions such as these in the fight against climate change. Regardless of this algorithm impacting crypto's credibility, I think finding software solutions that can tackle the climate crisis such as these should be implemented as much as possible in the coming decades. 